This is Carol and welcome back to the course and Tablo in today's tutorial we will learn how to navigate
Tablo and you'll get to play around for that too.
So here you can see where we left off last time we had just connected to our office supplies that we
dossers.
So let's move on to the Tablo workspace.
Here you can see at the bottom a tab called sheet 1.
Let's work on that and right away we're presented with the Tablo working area and it may seem a bit
overwhelming at first but that's exactly why in the previous section we had this quick agile run through
where we very rapidly created a map and it was quite intuitive wasn't it.
So that's exactly what we'll talk about today how easy it is to navigate this workspace in front of
us.
So the two main areas here are the data connection on the left or the Data tab on the left and the working
area on the right.
So this is where you will be creating things masterpieces.
So let's talk about the Data tab on the left.
First the data is always broken down into two sections dimensions and measures.
And there's a very distinct difference between them and it's important to understand.
So dimensions and measures are roles different to different rules that any data element can take.
And normally what Tablo does is in mental measures it puts any kind of numerical values and in two dimensions
it puts all the categorical and kind of qualitative dot.
So that's the default setting for Tablo.
And you're easily able to drag them around.
So if you're not happy with something being a measure you want you can put in two dimensions like like
that for instance as easy as that.
But we won't do that right now so I just click contrails there to undo an action.
That's the standard Windows key to cancel something.
So the other way to think about dimensions and measures is dimensions are independent variables and
measures are dependent variables so for instance you have here we have unit units.
So how many units of a certain item were sold.
And here we have region.
So we can find out how many units in each region were sold so region will be the independent variable
and units will be the dependent variable because it will be grouped by region and based on that definition
which is the correct definition.
Things might be required to move things around from them inches into measures and measures I mentioned.
But we will focus on that right now because Tablo usually guesses it quite correctly.
OK so what do we have here as well at the top we've got the normal ribbon for Windows.
So file basically you can save your file open a new file data you can collect connect to new data sources
here worksheets.
So this is considered a worksheet.
What we're going to be creating now is going to be a worksheet and we will get to work with these elements
a bit more in the future dashboards.
We are not talking about dashboards right now it'll come further down in this course and dashboard is
a combination of worksheets story a story can be a combination of worksheets and dashboards and we will
get to our exclusive stories as well that's a relatively new feature for tablet analysis.
It just basically specifies how you want to do your analysis on the current sheet that you're working
with.
We will be working with this tab a little bit in the future map.
We'll work with this when we get to maps basically formats.
There are other ways to access formatting and we'll be doing that in the course server.
We won't be looking at server right now.
And window help.
These are just auxillary functions.
So then what are we going to look at now is basically we won't talk about this right away because we
will get to know this ribbon as we progress of course but right now I'd like to focus on the main working
area where we will be creating a worksheet.
So here the main elements are columns and rows so most of your worksheets will be created by deciding
what goes into columns what goes into rows and then what goes into these other elements like what decides
color what the size of your shapes what decides what text is attached to shapes the level of detail
we will talk about aggregation more than the course and any tool tips that you want to put by.
So the easiest way to explore is probably to explore by doing so let's drag a few things onto this worksheet.
I would assume let's start perhaps we're frigid.
So we just drag it into the middle here.
And so we've put one dimension in and let's put another dimension let's say units and right away you
can see that by dragging those two in a tableau has decided to put region automatically into rows and
your units into it some of them opposites aggregate them by region and it's put them into a label.
And so here you can see that now you can tell right away how many units were sold sold in each region.
So now we can we can just drag and drop here so if you're not happy with having units here we can put
them into calls and right away we have a bar chart.
And now we can expand this a bit and then reduces a bit now we can see by region we can also see how
many units have been sold.
And you can also see that there is a tool to popping up every time you hover over one of the bars.
Now there's a very handy tool in Tablo which is called Show me here.
So I encourage you to play around the foot.
I don't normally use it in my work because I already know what I want most of the time but it gives
you kind of suggestions and quick shortcuts to different things so let's look at a pie chart for instance
here.
Now we can see a pie chart instead of all bar charts and now if we want to increase the size it's a
bit smaller usually these pie charts so versal will drag like that.
And if we if we're still not happy with the size this is bottom Noye here size just click that and you'll
see how it grows.
Well that's a bit too much.
So what does this show us that shows us what region bicolor has what proportion of the total sales in
units.
Once again we're just playing around.
Now there's no intention of what for what we're doing.
We're just exploring taboo.
So here you can see Central East and West.
And yeah it's a pretty cool pie chart but let's see what else we have so we can do a bubble chart right
away.
Tablo puts everything in the right positions for us as you can see it is nothing and nothing and rows
everything has been put in here.
Tablo has selected circles for us from his drop down and created this bubble chart.
So what else.
Then we can look at a tree chart tree map.
That's what it's called treatment.
So here it's like a bubble chart but it's a bit different because it's got boxes instead of instead
of circles.
And here once again the relative size of the box the area of the box is directly correlated to the number
of units sold in that region.
You can just keep clicking around and you'll see different versions of the dashboard that or the worksheet
that Tablo is suggesting for you and maybe you might be happy with one of them but we won't rely on
that and we will create our own version in the next tutorial.
So before we finish up I just want to show you that in THIS SHOW ME box some of the things are grayed
out and that's because you need certain elements of data to create these for instance to create an area
chart you need at least one date so zero or more dimensions one war measures and at least one that we
don't have a date in our work sheet right now.
Tablo concreate an area chart for us so if you want to add a day to just drag a date in here and now
it's highlighted and now we can create a area chart.
But once again we'll get to area charts line charts and all these other things further down the course.
Today we're just exploring tabbouleh.
So I look forward to seeing in the next tutorial and until then happy analyzing.